## Machine Learning Lab2: SVM

Written by Yanwu Gu & Modified by Yuanhao Pu 2023.11.11

### 1. Theory of Supported Vector Machine
Please refer to the contents of Chpt. 6.

### 2. Data
In order to simplify the lab, we give the function `generate_data(dim, num)` for you to freely generate the data. All given data is linearly separable but with some intentional mistakes. Features, labels, and rate of mislabeling will be given by the function respectively.

`generate_data(dim, num)` itself needs no modification.

### 3. Tasks, Tips, and Requirements
#### 3.1 Tasks
Your main task is to complete the classes `SVM1` and `SVM2` using different methods to find the solution of the supported vector machine. More specifically, since the key to solving SVM is to solve the quadratic programming problem (6.6) in your textbook, the only difference required is the methods of solving (6.6). All remaining parts can be the same.

After finishing your `SVM` classes, you are required to test the efficiency of your model by making comparisons including,

* The accuracy;
* The time of calculation (training);
  
If possible, you can also compare the class in `sklearn` with your classes, feel free to be beaten by it. If the comparison is not too different, there should not be any major problem with your code.

#### 3.2 Tips
Here are some tips for the lab:

- We do not recommend you use existing library functions to solve the quadratic programming problem directly, which will be penalized. However, if you cannot complete two methods from scratch, you can still use them for comprehension. Please give appropriate instructions in your report to avoid extra deduction of your points. (Refer to **Requirements**)
- We recommend you use proper dims to make sure your result is reliable. Different dims or numbers of examples will also make your report rich in content. Note that this part should not be verbose. The recommended number of samples is around 10,000 with dimensions above 20 to show the effect and capability of the model through comparison, which can be adjusted according to your device.
- Since our data is based on linear kernels, you do not need to try other kernels. But you can try soft margin or regularization to improve the ability of your model. Remember it's not the key point of this lab.
- Remember to add your mislabeling rate generated by the function `generate_data`. The mislabeling rate and the results of the SVM run do not necessarily have a strict size relationship, since mislabeling may change the actual hyperplane information.

#### 3.3 Requirements
- `sklearn` and other machine learning libraries are forbidden in your manuscript, you are only permitted with `numpy`, `pandas`, `matplotlib`, and Standard Library, you are required to write this project from scratch.
- You are allowed to discuss with other students, but you are not allowed to plagiarize the code, we will use an automatic system to determine the similarity of your programs, and once detected, both of you will get zero marks for this project.

### 4. Submission

Your report should include but not be limited to the following contents:

* The method you use, and briefly talk about its principle
* The result of your methods
* The comparison of your methods
  
Submit a .zip file with the following contents

--main.ipynb

--Report.pdf

Please name your file as `LAB2_PBXXXXXXXX_NAME.zip`, for wrongly named files, we will not count the mark

Sent an email to ml2023fall@163.com with your zip file before the deadline

Deadline: 2023.11.26 23:59:59
